PUBLIC HEALTH ORDER
March 20, 2020

Ministry of Health
3475 Albert Street
Regina, Canada 545 6X6

(Under Section 38 and Subsection 45(2) of The Public Health Act, 1994)
Control of Transmission of 2019 Novel Coronavirus

WHEREAS, I, Dr. Saqib Shahab, an official with the Ministry of Health and the Chief Medical Health Officer for the Province of Saskatchewan, have been authorized by the Minister of Health to act under section 45 of The Public Health Act, 1994;

AND WHEREAS, public gatherings and visiting hospitals and long-term care facilities can pose a public health threat due to the probability for the transmission of 20 19 novel coronavirus which has been designated as an emerging communicable disease pursuant to clause 2( I)( d. I) of The Disease Control Regulations;

AND WHEREAS, due to the situation continuing to evolve, I am hereby rescinding my Public Health Order dated March 19, 2020, and by virtue of the forego ing and under section 38 and subsection 45(2) of The Public Health Act, 1994:

1. I hereby ORDER and DIRECT that in the Province of Saskatchewan effective immediately:
  (a) Classes in all primary and secondary educational institutions, both public and private are suspended.
  (b) Public gatherings of over 25 people in one room are prohibited except in the following circumstances where 2 meter distancing between people can be maintained:
    (i) Settings where people are distributed into multiple rooms or buildings, and workplaces, and;
    (ii) Retail locations.
  (c) Visitors to long-term care homes, hospitals, personal care homes, and group homes shall be restricted to fami ly visiting for compassionate reasons.
  (d) The closure of all bars, lounges, night clubs and similar faci lities except in the following circumstances:
    (i) Take out of alcohol or food products with 2 meter distancing between customers; and
    (ii) Delivery of alcohol or food products.
  (e) All persons that have been identified by a Medical Health Officer as a close contact of a person or persons with novel corona virus disease (COYID-19) shall go into mandatory self-isolation for 14 days from the date of last having been exposed to COVID-19;
  (f) All persons that have traveled internationally shall go into mandatory selfisolation for 14 days from date of arrival back into Canada, except for the following persons if such persons are supervised by Infection Prevention and Control Officers or Occupational Health and Safety in the workplace:
    (i) health care workers;
    (ii) workers who provide emergency health care services;
    (iii) workers who are essential to maintain essential services;
    (iv) workers who maintain supply chain; or
    (v) rail, airline and transport crews.
  (g) All persons that become symptomatic while on mandatory self-isolation shall call Healthline 811 and follow Healthline directives; and
  (h) All persons who are household members of a person with COYID- 19 shall immediately go into mandatory self-isolation, call Healthline 811 and follow Healthline directives.

2. I hereby ORDER and DIRECT that in the Province of Saskatchewan effective March 23, 2020:
  (a) The closure of restaurants, food courts, cafeterias, cafes, bistros, and similar facilities, except the following is permitted:
    (i) Take out food with 2 meter distancing between customers;
    (ii) Drive through food services;
    (iii) Delivery of food products; or
    (iv) Soup kitchens, Not-for-profit community kitchens and religious kitchens with 2 meter distancing between persons;
  (b) The closure of all recreational and entertainment fac ilities including fitness centers, casinos, bingo halls, arenas, curling rinks, swimming pools, galleries, theaters, museums and similar facilities.
  (c) The closure of all personal service faci lities includ ing the place of business of:
    (i) a tattooist,
    (ii) hairdresser or barber,
    (iii) acupuncturist,
    (iv) acupressurist,
    (v) cosmetologist,
    (vi) electrologist,
    (vii) esthetician,
    (viii) manicurist,
    (ix) pedicurist,
    (x) sun tanning parlour,
    (xi) fac ilities in which body piercing, bone grafting or scarification services are provided,
    (xii) facilities in which massage or massage therapy services are provided except where the services are urgently medically necessary,
    (xiii) any other personal service fac ilities similar to those in subclauses (i) to
    (xii);
  (d) Dental, Optometrists, Ophthalmologist, Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Podiatry clinics shall only provide urgent services or procedures.
  (e) All facilit ies that provide child care services as defined in The Child Care Act, 2014, are limited to a maximum of 8 children per room.
  (f) All child care facilities that are co-located with or with-in a long term care or personal care home that meet the above restriction shall be segregated with a private entrance and separate space so that there are no shared common areas with the long term care home or personal care home, as the case may be, and no interaction between childcare children and residents of the home. The child care facility may continue to operate subject to any restrictions placed on all child care facilities. 
  
This order remains in effect until in the opinion of the Chief Medical Health Officer, there is no longer a public health threat.

DATED at Regina, Saskatchewan, on the 20th day of March, 2020.

Dr. Saqib Shahab FRCPC
Government of Saskatchewan
Chief Medical Health Officer