PUBLIC HEALTH ORDER
March 19, 2020
(Under Subsection 45(2) of The Public Health Act, 1994)
Control of Transmission of 2019-Novel Coronavirus

Ministry of Health
3475 Albert Street
Regina, Canada 545 6X6

WHEREAS, I, Dr. Saqib Shahab, an official with the Ministry of Health and the Chief Medical Health Officer for the Province of Saskatchewan have been authorized by the Minister of Health to act under section 45 of The Public Heafrh Act; 1994:

AND WHEREAS, public gatherings and visiting hospitals and long-term care faci lities can pose a public health threat due to the probability for the transmission of 20 I 9-Novel Coronavirus which has been designated as an emerging communicable disease pursuant to clause 2(l )(d.l) of The Disease Control Regulations;

AND WHEREAS, due to the situation continuing to evolve I am hereby rescinding my Public Health Order dated March 17, 2020 and by virtue of the fo regoing and under subsection 45(2) of The Public Health Act, 1994 effective immediately I hereby ORDER and DIRECT that in the Province of Saskatchewan:

1. Primary and secondary educational institutions, both public and private, will be suspended effective March 20, 2020.

2. Public gatherings of over 50 people in one room are prohibited except in the following circumstances:
  i. Settings where people are distributed into multiple rooms or buildings, such as universities and workplaces, and;
  ii. Retail locations.

3. Public gatherings of over 50 people with attendees who have traveled internationally in the previous 14 days of the scheduled event are prohibited.

4. Visitors to long-term care homes, hospitals, personal care homes, and group homes shall be restricted to fan1ily visiting for compassionate reasons.

5. All restaurants, food courts, cafeterias, bars, lounges, nightclubs, show theaters and similar must reduce capacity to 50% and must not exceed 50 people and take action to have a 2 meter distance between tables except in the following circumstances:
  i. Soup kitchens;
  ii. Not-for- profit community kitchens; or
  iii. Religious kitchens

6. The closure of all recreational and entertainment fac ili ties including fitness centers, casinos. bingo halls, arenas, curling rinks, swimming pools, galleries, museums and similar facil ities.

This order remains in effect until in the opinion of the Chief Medical Health Officer, there is no longer a public health threat.

DATED at Regina, Saskatchewan, on the 19th day of March, 2020.

Dr. Saqib Shahab FRCPC
Government of Saskatchewan
Chief Medical Health Officer